---
layout: post
title: Serifs...
categories: [school]
author: jayvarner
---

# I Don't Like Serifs
I have never liked serifs. They are clunky. I find them to be a holdover from some gaudy past that should never be brought back. Vinyl is worth holding on to. Streetcars are worth bringing back. But serifs, they just have to go. I find beauty in clean, geometric lines. So I had a hard time in this week’s adventures in grad school.

I had to make a type system. I’ll be implementing it on this blog as soon as I have time. My system uses [Merriweather](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Merriweather), not [Merriweather Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Merriweather+Sans), as its primary body text. I was really reluctant to use a serif font. I got really caught up with trying to find a sans font that scaled and made it easy to tell an uppercase “I” from a lowercase “L”. See, even my current style screws this up. Can you tell me which one of the following is the upper “I” or lower “L”?

<span style="font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', sans-serif;">I</span> <span style="font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', sans-serif;">l</span>

Oh right, and the number one.

<span style="font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', sans-serif;">I</span> <span style="font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', sans-serif;">l</span> <span style="font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', sans-serif;">l</span>

Seriously, the first one is Merriweather Sans’ upper “I”, second is its lower “L”, and last is the number one. The lowercase is taller? The one is the same as the lower “L”. 

The sans serif fonts I did use, like [Source Sans Pro](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro?query=source+sans+pro) had little flares, NOT SERIFS. This helped their readability, but are a clear compromise the offends by desire for geometric shapes with clean lines. I guess I should just be mad at the designers of the Latin alphabet and Arabic numerals. OR I SHOULD ALWAYS YELL FOR THE SAKE OF TYPOGRAPHIC CLARITY. But that’s not me. Maybe I should just empress the serif.
